# nanomia_genome


## analyses_de

### input

Building the `nanomia_deseq.qmd` quarto notebook requries two files not in this repository:

1. `txi.RData`, generated by `tximport` 
2. `Nanomia_bijuga.pep.emapper.annotations`, from `/gpfs/gibbs/project/dunn/nnp9/nanomia/results/emapper/Nanomia_bijuga` on McCleary.


### output

In addition to the rendered notebook, the two primary outputs are `res_all.tsv` and `res_lfc_all.tsv`. These differ by whether [log fold change shrinkage is applied or not](https://bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/vignettes/DESeq2/inst/doc/DESeq2.html#log-fold-change-shrinkage-for-visualization-and-ranking). These tables include genes with siginificantly higher transcript abundance in the focal tissue and stage, relative to all other samples.

There are a few fields of particular interest:

- `focal` indicates which tissue and stage combination is being compared to all other samples, for example `gastrozooid_mature`.
- `log2FoldChange` indicates the log2 fold change in transcript abundance for the focal tissue and stage, relative to all other samples. This is the effect size.
- `baseMean` The average of the normalized count values. If you were designing probes, genes with high values would be good candidates.
- `padj` indicates the adjusted p-value for the focal tissue and stage, relative to all other samples. This is the significance.
- `Description`	
- `Preferred_name`
- `GOs` Gene ontology terms. For example, DNA binding transcription factor activity is `3700`.
- `PFAMs`

Genes have already been filtered by significance. They are sorted by `focal`, and then descending `log2FoldChange`.